# ClientServerDevelopment

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

* To write code that is maintainable,readable, and adaptable, I must ensure it is as simple as possible, well-commented, and that it follows best practices for style. This way, it is easy for other programmers to come in and use or modify my work. I also need to strive to make my code reusable so it can adapt to different environments. My CRUD Python module acts as an intermediary between the AAC database and application code. Because I had created the CRUD module, I didn't need to worry about the inner workings of MongoDB while I worked on my dashboard. I only needed to call my simple CRUD methods and the module handled the details. It could be modified to work with any database, and I could use it over and over on different projects; this would save me valuable coding and testing time because I already know the CRUD module works.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

* I think a computer scientist should be patient and curious: dedicated to solving problems and determining their root cause. This assignment was more challenging than I predicted, and I ran into new errors every step of the way, but I did not give up, and worked each problem out eventually. I approached this project similarly to those in previous courses, with a list of requirements to meet: each one broken down into tasks. One thing that was different about my approach for this assignment was that I spent a lot of time going over documentation. I've used official documentation plenty in other courses, but only to supplement the information I got from textbooks, tutorials, and forums. I didn't find a lot of resources for my problems this time, though, and had to rely mostly on the official Dash, Pandas, and MongoDB documentation to get me through. If I were to create a database for a client in the future, I would want to do more planning in advance. Since Grazioso Salvare only works with dogs, for example, I could filter or aggregate the dataset before the user sees it, and only list dogs in the table.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

* Technology is more important now than it ever has been, and it will stay that way for quite awhile. Computer scientists contribute to the ever-growing tech world: creating new software, maintaining and improving legacy code, protecting people online, and much more. Even small companies can make use of technology to connect with clients and improve efficiency. Easy database access is of particular importance. Where Grazioso Salvare employees may have had to shuffle through paper files to find good dogs for training, they now can click a button and get back a list of candidates in less than a second. Computer scientists can help companies to spend less time dealing with files, forms, and records, and more time actually getting work done.
